Aigin Bernstein
5/6/18
Computer Science
Ms. Tanzosh
p5 Project Reflection

My experience with working with a partner was extremely helpful to the development of our program, and my overall knowledge of how
javascript works and the different algorithms associated with it. To make our coding process as efficient as possible, my partner,
Nahiyan, and I shared a workspace with each other so we were both able to work on the code simultaneously with the ideas coming from
both of us constantly flowing into the program. For example, if Nahiyan had an idea of something that might have improved our program,
he would write it in the program so that I was able to see his changes and evaluate them. If his idea benefited the program, I would
keep it as it was, but if his idea did not work correctly, I would do my best to fix the problem. If I wasn't able to fix a problem,
I would call over the TA, and expert, or the teacher for assistance. Overall, I would say that Nahiyan and I contributed equally
towards the final product of our program. In our program, we created a game similar to flappy bird, where a ball jumps whenever the
space bar is pressed and falls because of the gravity when nothing is being pressed. When approaching the movement (or jumping) of
the ball, we defined the y value, x value, gravity value, lift value, and velocity values. However, when we viewed the program when
it was being run, the ball did not seem to move at all. We spent a large amount of time looking for the solution of the problem but we
couldn't seem to find it. Then, we thought to ourselves, "The only way the ball is going to move is if something is pressed", so we
incorporated a "keyPressed" function into our program, which made the ball jump whenever the space bar was pressed. Another problem
that we encountered was that we completely forgort to implement the function setup and function draw functions into our program, so
when we ran it, nothing even showed up. Although our program was rather simple overall, our most complex algorithms are related to
the movement of the ball. To make the movement of the ball as realistic as possible, we used this.velocity += this.lift and
this.velocity += this.gravity to ensure that the movement of the ball would be proportional to the movement of the bird in the actual
flappy bird game. Also, we assigned values to lift, gravity, and velocity, so our the movement of the ball wouldn't be too
exaggerated.